Program Module 2 Team Project Assignment
During M2, you will work in your project team as consultants to the University of Virginia, Advancement Team. The client has engaged you to improve the participation rate and give amounts from the University of Virginia’s alumni. Your client defines participation rate as whether an alum donated to the university irrespective of their donation amount. Expect that the client wants you to:
• Recommend specific changes to advancement campaigns based on your analyses of historical data provided by the client.
• Link your product idea to a specific set of target consumers you believe are most likely to donate— to enhance profitability.
• Consider the preferences of the alums to engage with their alma mater, as this may affect how many of them donate.
• Your presentation should synthesize public information on the client and their environment, and analyses of secondary data provided by the client.
• Supplement your recommendations with primary research demonstrating your creative insight and analytic expertise.
Specifically, as part of this project, you will:
• Conduct a conjoint analysis to assess alums' preferences. Conjoint allows you to test product features and learn how changes affect consumer utility and/or willingness to pay. You will use Sawtooth, the industry-standard software, to conduct your conjoint analysis. Features of donation campaigns that you might consider measuring include (but are not limited to) the method of giving, gift amounts, incentives for donating, and the timing of the campaign. You have a creative license on the attributes you believe should be included. They should, however, be attributes whose importance can be reliably measured by conjoint analysis. Be thoughtful of the words used to describe your features to increase the value of your conjoint analysis.
• Develop an understanding of which alums are most likely to donate, by analyzing a large data set from the University of Virginia. The data set includes information on over 100,000 alums of the University of Virginia (graduation year, giving history, engagement with the university, biographic information, etc.). You will use two tools—Tableau and Python—and compete in a forecasting challenge to develop accurate predictions of the expected donation amounts from the alumni. Your predictive model should also identify the key drivers of donations and inform your thinking about which types of alums are the right targets for UVA advancement campaigns.
• Present your ideas for a new advancement campaign based on your conjoint analysis, your predictive analytics work, and any other market research you conduct. The design of your new campaign should be guided by evidence that it will engage more alums. Since you can only use a sample of the internal advancement data and an informal, small-scale survey, you should present it to your client (your audience), as a "proof of concept" to be validated and improved collaboratively with the client.
• Schedule regular meetings with your project team throughout the M2. Determine your process and arrange a time to work on your analyses together.
